cmake, doc: Update `build-openbsd.md` (#167)
hebasto/bitcoin: doc/build-openbsd.md

Run the following as root to install the base dependencies for building.

```bash

> pkg_add git cmake boost libevent

Author: From that PR description:
> It is required for the linters and other scripts

I cannot find anything in `test/lint/` directory that needs `bash`. However, I'm not sure about "other scripts".

Anyway, `bash` is not a _build_ dependency.

> pkg_add git cmake boost libevent

Author: The `bash` package has been added for building dependencies.

Refer to [depends/README.md](/depends/README.md) for detailed instructions.

```bash

> pkg_add gmake gtar

Reviewer: bash is being removed above, but if this is going to be added (probably shouldn't duplicate depends here), then it should probably also be here.

Author: Why? But bash is not needed to build depends.

Reviewer: > Why? bash is not needed to build depends.

Yes it is: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/depends/gen_id

Author: Oops. You're right.

But why depends do not fail without bash being installed?

Reviewer: Because generating the ID is currently best-effort, and trying to invoke `bash` even when it's not installed, will produce some output.

Author: I confirm:

- without `bash`:
```
$ gmake print-boost_build_id_long 
env: bash: No such file or directory
env: bash: No such file or directory
boost_build_id_long=boost-1.81.0-fc95b2d08969bfab552a815064aa6a30cc97b2b2c7d7a3cf9dc7d4f67781b91e-release  
$ gmake print-final_build_id      
env: bash: No such file or directory
env: bash: No such file or directory
final_build_id=8e0fd0c7a8b
```

- with `bash`:
```
$ gmake print-boost_build_id_long 
boost_build_id_long=boost-1.81.0-fc95b2d08969bfab552a815064aa6a30cc97b2b2c7d7a3cf9dc7d4f67781b91e-release  ca1ce530b13a4de03966f87414b24766b48463b14e6b91165c264c7f21058e09
$ gmake print-final_build_id      
final_build_id=5cba29525e3
```

Author: > bash is being removed above, but if this is going to be added (probably shouldn't duplicate depends here), then it should probably also be here.

Added.

> pkg_add bash gmake gtar

Reviewer: This should be moved to the depends readme, not duplicated here.

Author: Thanks! Done.

gmake -C depends NO_BOOST=1 NO_LIBEVENT=1 NO_QT=1 NO_SQLITE=1 NO_NATPMP=1 NO_UPNP=1 NO_ZMQ=1 NO_USDT=1
...

> to: /path/to/bitcoin/depends/amd64-unknown-openbsd7.5

Reviewer: Do we need to add the version suffixes here?

Author: We add nothing. It's `config.guess` output.

Reviewer: > We add nothing.

? The diff is adding `7.5`. It's unnecessary, and just adds the need for future maintainence. It can be dropped.

Reviewer: Sure, but it's still not necessarily correct or needed. i.e the current doc incorrectly assumes x86_64. This could just be `*-unknown-openbsd*`.

Author: Replaced with a placeholder.

Author: > Sure, but it's still not necessarily correct or needed. i.e the current doc incorrectly assumes x86_64. This could just be `*-unknown-openbsd*`.

Just noticed this comment. Implemented as suggested.

Bitcoin Core includes a GUI built with the cross-platform Qt Framework. To compile the GUI, Qt 5 is required.

```bash
pkg_add qtbase qttools
```

#### Test Suite Dependencies
There is an included test suite that is useful for testing code changes when developing.
To run the test suite (recommended), you will need to have Python 3 installed:

```bash
pkg_add install python  # Select the newest version of the package.
```

## Building Bitcoin Core

### 1. Configuration

There are many ways to configure Bitcoin Core, here are a few common examples:

##### Descriptor Wallet and GUI:
This enables the GUI and descriptor wallet support, assuming SQLite and Qt 5 are installed.

```bash
cmake -B build -DWITH_SQLITE=ON -DWITH_GUI=Qt5
```

> Run `cmake -S .. -LH` to see the full list of available options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run `cmake -B build -LH` to see the full list of available options.
```

Author: Thanks! Fixed.

Bitcoin Core includes a GUI built with the cross-platform Qt Framework. To compile the GUI, Qt 5 is required.

```bash
pkg_add qtbase qttools
```

#### Test Suite Dependencies
There is an included test suite that is useful for testing code changes when developing.
To run the test suite (recommended), you will need to have Python 3 installed:

```bash
pkg_add install python  # Select the newest version of the package.
```

## Building Bitcoin Core

> Prepare a build directory:

Reviewer: Aren't we using modern CMake invocations, where this isn't needed?

Author: I [think](https://github.com/hebasto/bitcoin/pull/167/files#r1579324545) this is a better option for the documentation purpose:

> The point is the `mkdir build && cd build` invocation guaranties the _clean_ build environment. Another benefit of `cd build` is that there is no need to specify the `--test-dir` option when running `ctest`.

Reviewer: Right, but isn't the point of using a dir, that you can just blow it away, and guarantee a clean env? i.e I'll regularly just `rm -r build`, and then re-run CMake commands, without having to hop around in directories.

Author: I do the same :)

Or use the `--fresh` option.

But I believe that the documentation should be foolproof. It has to suggest the safest way to do things. Users will find their own ways that suit their needs better.

Reviewer: > It has to suggest the safest way to do things.

Why is using mkdir and cd safer than using the CMake option that exists to do exactly the same thing?

Reviewer: > I think it's because -B will reuse an existing dirty build directory

Sure, but there's nothing preventing a user who's hopping around dirs and always recreating them manually from accidently doing the exact same thing?

Reviewer 3: You are right but in terms of documentation, how do we know that their build directory is empty? A mkdir sets the expectation that it was expected that this directory didn't already exist.

Reviewer: That only works the first time, and nowhere do we tell users to cleanup and recreate their build dirs, so anyone who's already built once, could easily re-use the same build dir with different code etc.

Author: [Reworked](https://github.com/hebasto/bitcoin/pull/167#issuecomment-2077532788).

Reviewer 2: `mkdir` ensures pristine build directory only if we assume that the user will stop if it gives an error. I can imagine some users continuing nevertheless (I have seen people that don't recognize error messages from normal diagnostic messages or just accidentally don't read that extra line on the screen which reads "mkdir: build: File exists").

If we want to stress on clean build directory then we need to start with a command like `rm -fr build` or `cmake --fresh`.

```bash
mkdir build
cd build
```

### 1. Configuration

There are many ways to configure Bitcoin Core, here are a few common examples:

##### Descriptor Wallet and GUI:
This enables the GUI and descriptor wallet support, assuming SQLite and Qt 5 are installed.

```bash

> cmake -S .. -DWITH_SQLITE=ON -DWITH_GUI=Qt5

Reviewer 2: Our suggestions boil down to:

```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -S ..
cmake --build .
```

It just occurred to me that `cmake` will create the build directory if it does not exist, so we don't need to `mkdir` it. We don't need to `cd` into it either. Consider the following instead:

```
cmake -B build
cmake --build build
```

Author: The point is the `mkdir build && cd build` invocation guaranties the _clean_ build environment. Another benefit of `cd build` is that there is no need to specify the `--test-dir` option when running `ctest`.

Reviewer 3: It's my observation that most documentation seems to prefer `mkdir` followed by `cd` over using `-B`. I often use the shorter route but I think for documentation perhaps it should be be the longer slightly safer route?

Reviewer: I think that's mostly because a lot of docs were written before CMake had the ability to automatically create the dirs, and then it's just never been updated.

Author: [Reworked](https://github.com/hebasto/bitcoin/pull/167#issuecomment-2077532788).
